We’d walk in and sometimes we’d do some kind
of introduction exercise because people were
coming from different precincts, so they didn’t
necessarily all know each other. We tried some ice
breaker games. Oh boy did they not work. [laughs]
I remember clearly asking people to identify their
favourite colour as part of their introduction,
and, you know, you think something really
safe. [laughing] Right? A really safe question.
[laughing] Nobody’s going to react badly to that,
but the idea was around diversity, right? [laughs]
And everybody in the room, regardless of age,
or gender, or whatever, [laughing] they identified
blue as their favourite colour. [laughs] To me
what that identified was this broader issue
of a pack mentality. It’s going to be hard
for anyone to dissent from the pack when we get
into harder issues because if they can’t say,
“My favourite colour is red” or “orange,” how
are they going to say, you know, “I disagree with
you,” or “I think we should be more in tune with
the queer and trans communities.”
You know, but, I have to say, the cost of that training,
the development and delivery, were incredibly high
for all the community-based trainers. All of
us had... There were sessions we couldn’t do,
because they’re vicious to each other,
the police. And they are... You know,
there are a lot of people in there that really
like having a gun and a badge and probably
shouldn’t have one. And the kinds of things
that, you know, you have to listen to on repeat,
course after course after course, or workshop
after workshop. You know, it wears.
But I do want to contrast that
with the hallway conversations.The hallway
conversations were amazing. One-on-one
interaction with all the students, they were
fantastic. They would identify their favourite
colour in real. They would speak to me like I was
human. [laughs] Because remember, they hated this,
right? They were forced, and no one likes to be
forced to do anything. Right? Before they’ve even
met me, or before they’ve even tackled the topic,
there was a certain hatred. It was nerve-wracking
at first, but as I became more comfortable
with them, I kind of learned how to navigate.